search: document -content and NOT (#12776)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/user/search/queries.md

Note: It is not possible to perform case-insensitive matching with structural search.

## Keywords 

> Unless stated otherwise, the following keywords can be used on all searches (using [RE2 syntax](https://golang.org/s/re2syntax) any place a regex is accepted):

Reviewer: Agree, I think it might be the the exception about `-content` (but that's a bit unclear). Easy way is just to not mention it in the table, and add it to the operator section below. Also for the stated reason that it is guarded by an option currently.

> Unless stated otherwise, the following keywords can be used on all searches (using [RE2 syntax](https://golang.org/s/re2syntax) any place a regex is accepted):

Author: The documentation currently states that all keywords work for all searches, which is not true for `-content`. I wanted to add `-content` to the table because I believe that is where users will look first to learn about keywords. I will revert the change to the heading and the paragraph, keep `-content` in the table but explain the limitations below the table.

> Unless stated otherwise, the following keywords can be used on all searches (using [RE2 syntax](https://golang.org/s/re2syntax) any place a regex is accepted):

Reviewer 2: Makes sense to me to add `-content` to the table with all the other keywords. The description for `_content` in the table could link to the #Limitations explained below the table.

| **repogroup:group-name** <br> _alias: g_ | Only include results from the named group of repositories (defined by the server admin). Same as using a repo: keyword that matches all of the group's repositories. Use repo: unless you know that the group exists. | |
| **file:regexp-pattern** <br> _alias: f_ | Only include results in files whose full path matches the regexp. | [`file:\.js$ httptest`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:%5C.js%24+httptest) <br> [`file:internal/ httptest`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:internal/+httptest) |
| **-file:regexp-pattern** <br> _alias: -f_ | Exclude results from files whose full path matches the regexp. | [`file:\.js$ -file:test http`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:%5C.js%24+-file:test+http) |
| **content:"pattern"** | Set the search pattern with a dedicated parameter. Useful when searching literally for a string that may conflict with the [search pattern syntax](#search-pattern-syntax). | [`repo:sourcegraph content:"repo:sourcegraph"`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:sourcegraph+content:"repo:sourcegraph"&patternType=literal) |

> | **-content:"pattern"** | Exclude results from files whose content matches the pattern. See our [content-search](#limitations-of-content-search) documentation for current limitations. | [`file:Dockerfile alpine -content:alpine:latest`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:Dockerfile+alpine+-content:alpine:latest&patternType=literal) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **-content:"pattern"** | Exclude results from files whose content matches the pattern. See the [requirements and current support](#negated-content-search) for negated content search. | [`file:Dockerfile alpine -content:alpine:latest`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:Dockerfile+alpine+-content:alpine:latest&patternType=literal) |
```

Suggest a rephrase because redirecting to a section labeled "limitations" feels unnecessarily negative.

> | **-content:"pattern"** | Exclude results from files whose content matches the pattern. Note: `-content` is currently only supported for literal and regexp patterns on indexed repositories. | [`file:Dockerfile alpine -content:alpine:latest`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:Dockerfile+alpine+-content:alpine:latest&patternType=literal) |

Reviewer: Because this is particular to the `migrateParser` option that we're not shipping yet (I.e., this entry in the table has a constraint), I would, for now, now include it in this table, and restrict to talking about it below in the operators section.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for making the `content:` example clearer.
#search-pattern-syntax link doesn't open as expected in rich diff mode, it opens a weirdly [formatted page ](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/diffs/2?base_sha=2101f23b9e9de8abf953d6e45d5d5c04388718f1&commentable=true&pull_number=12776&sha1=2101f23b9e9de8abf953d6e45d5d5c04388718f1&sha2=8b275cc42feeaa8cd02b94ecc7dd023fdfdad2cf&short_path=a504a5e&unchanged=expanded#search-pattern-syntax)
but that might just because this is a PR.

Reviewer: Yeah it's best to clone locally to see the actual rendering

Returns file content matching either on the left or right side, or both (set union). The number of results reports the number of matches of both strings.

| Operator | Example |
| --- | --- |

> | `not`, `NOT` | [`panic not file:main.go lang:go`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=panic+not+file:main.go+lang:go&patternType=literal), [`panic NOT ever`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+panic+not+ever&patternType=literal)

Reviewer: How about we change this order to `not file:main.go lang:go panic` for readability?

Reviewer: `lang:go not file:main.go panic` reads better :-) making that change.

> | `not`, `NOT` | [`panic not file:main.go lang:go`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=panic+not+file:main.go+lang:go&patternType=literal), [`panic NOT ever`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+panic+not+ever&patternType=literal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `not`, `NOT` | [`lang:go not file:main.go panic`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=lang:go+not+file:main.go+panic&patternType=literal), [`panic NOT ever`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+panic+not+ever&patternType=literal)
```

Returns file content matching either on the left or right side, or both (set union). The number of results reports the number of matches of both strings.

| Operator | Example |
| --- | --- |
| `not`, `NOT` | [`panic not file:main.go lang:go`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=panic+not+file:main.go+lang:go&patternType=literal), [`panic NOT ever`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph%24+panic+not+ever&patternType=literal)

`NOT` can be used in place of `-` to negate keywords, such as `file`, `content`, `lang`, `repohasfile`, and `repo`. For
search patterns, `NOT` excludes documents that contain the term after `NOT`. For readability, you can also include the
`AND` operator before a `NOT` (i.e. `panic NOT ever` is equivalent to `panic AND NOT ever`).

> `NOT` requires the experimental `migrateParser: true` option in the site settings and can currently not be used in
> conjunction with `type:`.

Reviewer: The part about `type:` is only specific to `not pattern`, not the whole operator. If included, this part should be merged in the support section below. But, I think we should not include this in the docs (because, if `migrateParser` were enabled, I wouldn't include this in the doc--it is something we can raise in an alert, we don't enumerate all of the exceptional cases of search queries, like this restriction, in the docs). I was just commenting on it because we should probably add that validation check in the code.

```suggestion
```

Returns file content matching either on the left or right side, or both (set union). The number of results reports the number of matches of both strings.

| Operator | Example |
| --- | --- |
| `not`, `NOT` | [`panic not file:main.go lang:go`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=panic+not+file:main.go+lang:go&patternType=literal),

`NOT <keyword>:` is equivalent to `-<keyword>:`. `NOT` can only stand before negatable keywords, such as `file`, `content`, `lang`, `repohasfile`, and `repo`. 

> 

Reviewer: We should add that it is possible to search for `not` of a pattern (where `content:` isn't required). So two examples like:

``
panic not never
panic and not never
```

I think we should mention both, since `panic not never` reads terse, which is nice, but also not super obvious unless you're a power user. `panic and not never` reads like english, and is equivalent, so is nice to mention.

Reviewer: Aside: `not 'something' type:file` probably doesn't work right now. `type:XXX` is a bit of a pain, since sometimes it is an alias (e.g., that would be `-file:something), but sometimes it doesn't act exactly like an alias, and in general I don't feel confident about what it does (especially not on sourcegraph.com's default repos). So: we could write a transformer to support the previous case, but to be safe, I'm in favor of adding a validation check that `not` is not used in conjunction with any `type:XXX` term.

Reviewer 2: I think `NOT` is exactly equivalent to `-`, in that is also doesn't support `file`, `content`, `lang`, `repohasfile`, and `repo`? Is it's value in being another convenient syntax, would be helpful to mention this? Can we also stress on the exactness. I checked `-` operator usages in the table above to confirm.

Reviewer: Yeah, the value is in an alternative (arguably) more readable syntax. Note that this is similar to the Lucene syntax. `NOT` is exactly equivalent, yes. It's just that we are _also_ adding a new capability (and documenting it in this PR) that it is now possible to do:

`NOT pattern`

_However_ it should be clear that `NOT pattern` is only guaranteed to work when `type:XXX` is _not_ specified. Because `type:XXX` changes the meaning/interpretation of something like `pattern type:repo` (we will search for repos, not file contents). Thus, if `type:XXX` is specified, all bets are off about the usage and expectations of `NOT pattern`.

Reviewer 2: ah, I've used Java's Lucene library but I'm not familiar with the syntax. The explanation makes it a bit more clearer!
It sounds like it's file content search (pattern-types literal, regex, structural and content:) versus all other navigation based searches (repo:, revision;, revision:). Is this correct?
Sidenote: The term pattern is used through the docs but it's definition is a bit unclear to me. This is probably a longer clarification and outside the scope of this PR.

A query with `type:path` restricts terms to matching filenames only (not file contents).

Example: [`type:path repo:/docker/ registry`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=type:path+repo:/docker/+registry)

## Negated content search

> To exclude code or text matches with `not pattern` or `-content:pattern`, set the `migrateParser: true` option in global settings. Negated content search is currently supported for literal and regexp queries on indexed repositories. Negated content search on unindexed repositories is not yet supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exclude code or text matches with `not pattern` or `-content:pattern`, set the `"search.migrateParser": true` option in global settings. Negated content search is currently supported for literal and regexp queries on indexed repositories. Negated content search on unindexed repositories is not yet supported.
```

A query with `type:path` restricts terms to matching filenames only (not file contents).

Example: [`type:path repo:/docker/ registry`](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=type:path+repo:/docker/+registry)

> ## Limitations of content search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Negated content search
```

> `-content` requires the experimental `migrateParser: true` option in the site settings and is currently only supported for literal and regexp queries on indexed repositories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exclude code or text matches with `not pattern` or `-content:pattern`, set the `migrateParser: true` option in global settings. Negated content search is currently supported for literal and regexp queries on indexed repositories. Negated content search on unindexed repositories is not yet supported.
```

How does this wording sound to you? Don't need to mention structural explicitly, since that's less important. Just want to make it explicit that unindexed repos are not supported.
